, in which chemical energy is produced from water, minerals, and carbon dioxide with the aid of pigments and the
radiant energy of the Sun, (2) essentially unlimited growth at localized regions, (3) cells that contain cellulose
in their walls and are therefore to some extent rigid, (4) the absence of organs of locomotion, resulting in a more
 or less stationary existence, (5) the absence of nervous systems, and (6) life histories that show an alteration
 of haploid and diploid generations, with the dominance of one over the other being taxonomically significant.

 Plants range in size from diminutive duckweeds only a few millimetres in length to the giant sequoias of California
 that reach 90 metres (300 feet) or more in height. There are an estimated 390,900 different species of plants known
  to science, and new species are continually being described, particularly from previously unexplored tropical
  areas of the world. Plants evolved from aquatic ancestors and have subsequently migrated over the entire surface
  of Earth, inhabiting tropical, Arctic, desert, and Alpine regions. Some plants have returned to an aquatic habitat
   in either fresh or salt water.
   Plants play a vital role in the maintenance of life on Earth. All energy used by living organisms depends on
   the complex process of photosynthesis, which is mostly carried out by green plants.
   Radiant energy from the Sun is transformed into organic chemical energy in the form of sugars through the
   fundamental series of chemical reactions constituting photosynthesis. In nature all food chains begin with
   photosynthetic autotrophs (primary producers), including green plants and algae.
   Primary producers, represented by trees, shrubs, and herbs, are a prolific source of energy in the form of
   carbohydrates (sugars) stored in the leaves.
   These carbohydrates, produced in photosynthesis, are broken down in a process called respiration;

The life histories of plants include two phases, or generations, one of which is diploid
(the nuclei of the cells contain two sets of chromosomes), whereas the other is haploid
(with one set of chromosomes). The diploid generation is known as the sporophyte,
which literally means spore-producing plant. The haploid generation, called the gametophyte,
produces the sex cells, or gametes. The complete life cycle of a plant thus involves an alternation of generations.
 The sporophyte and gametophyte generations of plants are structurally quite dissimilar.