CHICKEN BIRYANI
Chicken Biryani is a savory chicken and rice dish that includes layers of chicken, rice, and aromatics that are steamed together. 
The bottom layer of rice absorbs all the chicken juices as it cooks, giving it a tender texture and rich flavor, while the top layer of rice turns out white and fluffy. 
Buried in the Biryani, you’ll find whole cuts of succulent chicken bursting with flavor from the potent array of spices, herbs, and aromatics it’s marinated in.

Whether you’re talking Arroz con Pollo, Hainanese Chicken Rice, or Oyako Donburi, chicken and rice is a classic pairing that has permeated culinary culture around the world. 
It makes sense that earlier in human history, this staple seed would be combined with a domesticated source of protein.
Still, the fact that this combination has endured as a popular favorite today, speaks to its unassailable deliciousness.

INGREDIENTS
for chicken
1 tablespoonvegetable oil10 grams
garlic (grated)10 gramsginger (grated)
1serrano chili peppers (to taste, minced)
5 gramsmint (finely chopped)10 grams
cilantro (finely chopped1 tablespoon garam masala1/2 teaspoon
ground cinnamon1 teaspoon salt900 grams
<<<<<<< HEAD
bone-in skin-less chicken thighs
bone-in skin-less chicken thighs
=======
bone-in skin-on chicken thighs
>>>>>>> 97701de7beee6c7a7cbf19fdb1443f8ad50a2fe9


STEPS
To marinate the chicken for the biryani, combine the vegetable oil, garlic, ginger, chili peppers, mint, cilantro, garam masala, cinnamon and salt in a large bowl and stir together.
Add the chicken pieces and toss together making sure the chicken is thoroughly coated in the marinade.
Allow the chicken to marinate for at least 1 hour or up to overnight.
In a pot wide enough to hold the chicken in a single layer, add the ghee and onions and saute the onions until they are well caramelized (15-20 minutes).
Transfer the caramelized onions to a bowl and set aside.

Finish putting together the Biryani by adding the rest of the rice in an even layer.
Add 1 cup of reserved liquid from boiling the rice.
Cover the pot with a lid and put the pot on the stove over medium heat and set the timer for 20 minutes.
When you can see steam escaping from under the lid, turn down the heat to low and continue cooking until
the timer goes off and then turn off the heat.